January 2: Christina Anderson, 30, of Hoover died from a gunshot wound suffered the previous evening while she was walking with another person on the 800 block of Center Street North in Smithfield. She was driven to Princeton Baptist Medical Center and later transferred to UAB Hospital where she died Monday morning. No arrest. (report)
January 3: Randale Lamar Oden, 34, a Bessemer resident previously charged with operating an illegal casino, was shot to death outside a unit at The Oaks Apartments on Earline Circle in the Spring Lake neighborhood. He had been fighting with an ex-girlfriend and followed her to the residence of an acquaintance of hers. Oden was killed in the resulting fight with the acquaintance. The shooter was taken into custody, but was not charged after officials determined the homicide was justifiable. (report)
January 11: Rashiem Hakiem Porter, 26, was shot to death during a fight in the parking lot of the Best Convenience Store on Pearson Avenue at 17th Place Southwest in Oakwood Place. Joshua Louis Cowans of Hueytown was arrested and charged with capital murder. (report)
January 26: Decarlos Jordan, 39, was shot to death as he left a friend's house on the 4900 block of Court I in Belview Heights. No arrest. (report)
January 29: The remains of Derek Washington, 23, missing since April 3, 2015, were found by a squirrel hunter in the vicinity of a vacant home on Wood Avenue in the Booker Heights community of unincorporated Jefferson County. The case was turned over to the Birmingham Police Department because they had investigated the missing person report and found evidence the homicide took place in the city. BPD later asked the Sheriff's Department to take up the investigation again. No arrest. (report)
January 31: Andreas Kashif Brown, 33, was killed by a stray bullet during a shootout in Gate City. He was found on the 7500 block of 64th Court South. Both shooters fled the scene. JaMarcus McIntyre was arrested in Uniontown, Perry County in April and charged with murder. (report)
January 31: Juzahris Quintez Webb, 17, was shot to death on the 3200 block of Cedar Avenue Southwest while walking home from Wenonah High School. Monsure Davis and Sha Quon Edwards were arrested after fleeing from the suspect vehicle, which was stolen. Davis, who had argued with Webb over a girl, is the suspected shooter and was charged with capital murder. Edwards was charged with first-degree theft. A third suspect, Dequerius Tyrell Fair, has also been charged with capital murder. A fourth suspect, a 15-year-old, was arrested but not charged. (report)
February 2: Antwon Hawkins, 37, was shot to death on the 4100 block of 5th Court North in the Tom Brown Village housing project in North Avondale. No arrest. (report)
February 3: Charles Lee Brown, 27, was shot in the head while driving his Ford Explorer on I-59/20 near 20th Street Ensley. He was found after the SUV crashed into a barrier and pronounced dead on the scene. No arrest. (report)
February 4: Curtis Lee Johnson, 48, died at St Vincent's East two days after being found with stab wounds at a friend's house on the 8000 block of 1st Avenue South in South East Lake. A woman he had been dating, Kewunci Tyrese Bailey, was arrested and charged with reckless manslaughter. (report)
February 4: Cassandra "San" Cherry, 55, was shot to death inside her home on the 600 block of Goldwire Place in South Titusville. Henry Gosha turned himself in to police later the same day. He was charged with capital murder because he broke into Cherry's apartment. (report)
February 7: Isaiah Johnson, 17, was shot to death in an alley behind LIV Parkside and collapsed on 2nd Avenue South between 17th and 18th Streets in the Five Points South neighborhood. The shooting took place during an attempted illegal gun trade and sale. After an investigation, it was determined that Johnson and Tavares Floyd had intended to rob the other party and that the shooting was justified as self defense. Because of his involvement in the robbery attempt, Floyd was charged with Johnson's murder. (report)
February 8: Justin Lamar Milliner, 27 was found shot to death, and two others wounded, in a unit of the El Morado Apartments at 1341 Princeton Avenue Southwest in Arlington-West End. No arrest. (report)
February 8: De Ijiroa Yasmon Brown, 31, was shot to death in an alley off of 30th Avenue North. No arrest (report)
February 9: Cordan Rahfeal Bonner, 33, died from a gunshot wound to the head suffered in the incident the previous day at the El Morado Apartments.
February 10: Lakota Barak Miller, 29, was found shot to death in an abandoned house on the 6800 block of 5th Terrace North in Wahouma. The motive is believed to have been robbery. Anthony Fairley was arrested in July and charged with capital murder. (report)
February 10: Le'Darius Marquis Belser, 25, died at UAB Hospital from gunshot wounds suffered on January 29. He was found sitting in his car on the 400 block of 20th Street in Ensley. Danny Dewayne Adams was arrested in March and charged with his murder. (report)
February 13: Victor Dewayne Eaton, 41, died at UAB Hospital after being shot on the 400 block of Florida Avenue in Thomas while he was walking to a grocery store. No arrest. (report)
February 15: Tavares Smith, 36, was shot to death while driving on the 2100 block of Stouts Road in the Evergreen Bottoms section of the Evergreen neighborhood. His girlfriend was in the car and suffered minor injuries. Police are seeking a group of men with whom Smith had a long-running dispute. No arrest. (report)
February 20: Denzal Moore, 22, was shot to death in his home on the 1800 block of 19th Avenue North in Evergreen. The shooter apparently fired into the house from outside during a child's birthday party. No arrest. (report)
February 21: Kevin Dewayne Hooten, 27, died in nursing care from injuries suffered in a September 2016 shooting at 5733 Sycamore Avenue in the Roosevelt neighborhood. He and his girlfriend had gone to retrieve her belongings from an ex-boyfriend's house. Two sons of the woman and her ex-boyfriend began arguing with them and one fired into the car, hitting Hooten in the head and arm. Hooten was treated at Princeton Baptist Medical Center and UAB Hospital before being released to nursing care. The shooter was arrested and charged with attempted murder at the time. Those charges are expected to be upgraded to capital murder. (report)
February 25: Willie Griffin, 42, was shot to death following an argument outside his home on the 4500 block of 9th Avenue North in the Morton Simpson Homes public housing community. April Brackett was taken into custody at the scene and later charged with murder. (report)
March 3: Willie Burrell, 34, was shot to death following a fight with a woman. He was found on the 2300 block of Cullman Avenue in Fairview. A female suspect was taken into custody and charged with attempted murder for the earlier altercation, but no charges have been filed for the fatal shots. (report)
March 3: Nassir Battle, 11, was found bludgeoned at a home on the 800 block of 80th Street South in South East Lake and later pronounced dead at Children's Hospital. Tracy Dickerson was taken into custody at the house and charged with capital murder. (report)
March 16: Quinchez Spradley, 35, was one of two men found shot to death in a home on the 200 block of 69th Place North in Wahouma. No arrest. (report)
March 16: Twallis McClendon, 45, was the second man found dead in the house in Wahouma.
March 22: Marlon Arrington, 23, was shot to death in an alley behind a home on 19th Street Southwest. An assault rifle was found near his body and police believe he died during a shootout. No arrest. (report)
March 22: An unborn child died after its mother was shot in the abdomen at her apartment in Tom Brown Village in North Avondale. She named the prospective father, Earl Bernard Thomas, as the shooter. He fled, but was captured in Selma. The Jefferson County District Attorney determined to charge the death of the early-stage fetus as a homicide under Alabama law. Thomas was indicted by a grand jury for murder and attempted murder in July. (report)
March 25: Darius Chatman, 26, was shot to death while engaged in an attempted home invasion of apartment 2502 of the Southtown Court housing project on the 2500 block of 9th Court South. The resident was also injured by gunfire. Investigators believe Chatman's death was justified as self-defense. (report)
March 26: Brieyonna Ranneice Pearson, 16, was killed in a vehicle collision on Center Point Parkway at Polly Reed Road. Jessica Nicole Abdullah, the driver of the other car, fled the scene. Investigators determined that she had been speeding and a grand jury returned an indictment for reckless manslaughter. (report)
March 27: Dedrick Jordan, 38, died at UAB Hospital from gunshot wounds suffered five days earlier during a late-night assault at a gathering on the 3000 block of Avenue S in Ensley Highlands. No arrest. (report)
March 31: Jermaine Snow Lee, 23, was found shot to death in a burning Nissan Altima in an alley behind the 3000 block of 15th Street Ensley in Bush Hills. No arrest. (report)
March 31: Montel Glenn, 21, was the second victim in the same incident.
April 5: Randall Dewon Brown, 35, was shot to death on the 300 block of 15th Court North in Norwood. Brown was awaiting trial for assault and also had two outstanding warrants on robbery and burglary charges. Two suspects were seen leaving the scene in a dark-colored vehicle. Tavares Cortez Taylor was arrested on May 10 and charged with the murder. (report)
April 8: Kerry Minter, 39, was shot to death after an argument that broke out during a gathering on the 4400 block of Eli Avenue Southwest in East Brownville. Dewayne Whittington was arrested in late April and charged with murder. (report)
April 14: John Lewis Kennedy, 20, was shot to death in a drive by while standing outside a unit at 200 Roosevelt Courtway Southwest in the Loveman Village housing project in North Titusville. No arrest. (report)
April 17: Hajile Watkins Jr, 11 months old, died at Children's Hospital from injuries suffered an auto collision three days earlier on I-59/20 near the Tallapoosa Street exit. Robert Lee Hardy Jr was determined to have been speeding and driving under the influence of alcohol and hydrocodone. He was charged with vehicular manslaughter. (report)
April 28: Cartez Bolden, 22, was found shot to death on the bedroom floor of a home on the 100 block of 5th Avenue Southwest in North Titusville. Two adults in the home were taken into custody, but no charges have been filed. (report)
May 1: Joseph Smith, 34, was shot to death at a gambling party in a house on the 3300 block of 15th Court North in Norwood. Janorris Johnson was arrested a week later and charged with murder. He was indicted by a grand jury in August. (report)
May 2: Tonya Legale Mitchell, 51, was killed when she was hit by a car while walking on the sidewalk along the 7000 block of 2nd Avenue South in South East Lake. Karlo Lee Johnson was taken into custody at the scene and was found to be speeding and driving while under the influence of marijuana. He was charged with reckless murder. He also faces other unrelated charges, and a civil lawsuit filed on behalf of Mitchell's estate. (report)
May 8: Robert Washington, 63, was shot to death during an argument on the 4500 block of 8th Court North in Kingston. Andell Daniel was arrested several days later and charged with murder. (report)
May 9: Marcus Murray, 19, was found shot to death on his bedroom floor in The Oaks at Springville apartments on Earline Circle in Huffman. His blue Camaro was missing. No arrest. (report)
May 10: Ta'Narius Moore, 25, was killed when a long-running argument escalated on the 3100 block of 31st Avenue North in the Collegeville Housing Community in Collegeville. The suspected shooter has been identified, but investigators determined that Moore shot first and that his death was a justified use of force in self-defense. (report)
May 14: Tyler Griffin, 32, was shot in the back while walking away from an argument which began during a Mothers' Day gathering at 3425 Boise Avenue in Germania Park. No arrest. (report)
May 18: Te'Kia Turner, 21, was killed in a drive-by while sitting in the back seat of a car outside the Citgo station at the corner of Lomb Avenue and Woodland Avenue in Arlington-West End. No arrest. (report)
May 29: Jeremy Thompson, 30, known to frequent I-59 Exit 119B at Avenue I in Ensley to ask motorists for money, was shot to death there, possibly following an argument with more than one person in a vehicle. No arrest. (report)
June 2: La-Corey Thomas, 15, was shot to death in a gunfight near the intersection of Center Street and 9th Avenue West in Smithfield. He was riding with two other males in a stolen Kia Optima and exchanged fire with shooters in another car. No arrest. (report)
June 3: Mike Mulwa Ngangi, 29, died at UAB Hospital from a gunshot suffered during a robbery while he was working at the Citgo station at 9800 Parkway East in Roebuck. Chandler Jacoby Bryant was arrested several days later and indicted in October for capital murder and first-degree robbery.(report)
June 7: Fred Cornelius Wilson II, 69, died from injuries suffered in a vehicle collision on 7th Street West near Legion Field in Graymont. He was pinned under a pickup truck that was struck by a truck stolen by Cody Allen Abney. Abney, who fled the scene on foot, was later arrested and indicted for reckless manslaughter (report)
June 8: Paul Matthew "Bam Bam" Carter, 32, was found in the trunk of a burning car in an alley near 2033 Fayette Avenue in Fairview. No arrest. (report)
June 8: Jason Mandell Elliott, 38, died from gunshot wounds suffered in a drive-by shooting on the 4200 block of 51st Avenue North in Inglenook on May 26. No arrest. (report)
June 11: Jonathan Ringstaff, 32, was found shot to death in the alley behind a house on the 7800 block of 4th Avenue South in South East Lake. The shooter turned himself in to police, and after an investigation it was determined that Ringstaff was attempting to rob the shooter at gunpoint, and that deadly force was justified. (report)
June 17: Erwin Jones, 30, was shot to death while sitting on a bench outside the Rickwood Apartments near the intersection of 12th Street West and 12th Court West in Rising-West Princeton. The shooting may have taken place during a confrontation over items believed to have been stolen. Phalander Hayes and Derrick Edwin Johnson were arrested and charged with murder. They were indicted on felony murder charges by a grand jury in January 2018. (report)
June 26: Rickey Devolya Siler, 35, was shot on the 5900 block of 1st Avenue North near the Exxon gas station in Woodlawn. He and another male were crossing the street and exchanged words with the driver of a blue Dodge Charger which nearly struck them. The driver got out of the car and shot Siler, who got as far as the gas station before collapsing. Another man at the gas station was wounded. No arrest. (report)
June 30: Antonio Jerome Brooks II, 20, was hit by a stray bullet while driving and crashed his car on the 1700 block of Jefferson Avenue Southwest. DeMarcus Daniels and X'Zavier McWillie had been shooting from their car at another car driven by McWillie's father, who had confronted the two earlier about a stolen credit card. The teens fled the scene and later rammed a police vehicle. The two were arrested and charged with attempted murder and discharging a firearm into an occupied vehicle. The charges were upgraded to capital murder in August. Judge Theresa Pulliam dismissed the firearm charge in October and referred the other charges to a grand jury, which returned indictments for capital murder in January 2018 (report)
July 2: Larry Duncan, 42, was killed in an early morning shootout on the 2800 block of 7th Avenue South in Lakeview. Ryan Arthur Johnson, Duncan's wife's cousin and an off-duty employee of the Birmingham Department of Public Works, got into an argument with two other on-duty sanitation workers. Johnson was subsequently indicted for intentional murder. (report)
July 5: Adrian Lockett, 32, was shot to death at his fiancee's apartment on the 7500 block of 67th Courtway South in the Marks Village public housing community in Gate City. The woman's ex-husband, Verneil Wilson, turned himself in at Birmingham Police Headquarters and was charged with murder. He was indicted for capital murder and two counts of assault by a grand jury in September. (report)
July 12: Taleayah Stafford, 4, died at Children's Hospital three days after being injured in a shootout on 47th Street North in Kingston. Her father and Antonio Fowler brought her to the scene of an earlier argument, and she was killed in a shootout that erupted. Another woman, Shirley Jackson Hollonquest, was struck while driving near the scene. She died in January 2018. Fowler was charged with attempted murder and two counts of first-degree assault. The other party in the argument claimed to have fired back in self defense under the state's "Stand Your Ground" law, and was not charged. (report)
July 16: Erskine Hawkins, 47, was shot to death on the 1100 block of 15th Street West in Arlington-West End. Investigators believe he was killed by members of his girlfriend's family after the girlfriend's 13-year-old daughter reported that he sexually assaulted her. (report)
July 17: Tacorya Najuan Love, 33, was found dead from a gunshot wound in a grassy area on the 8300 block of 5th Avenue North in North East Lake. It appeared she had been injured on the 8400 block of 6th Avenue North and died while seeking help. No arrest. (report)
July 21: Vergil Angela Cook, 57, was found dead from stab wounds in her locked home on the 1300 block of 21st Street North in Druid Hills. She had not been heard fromo since Wednesday the 19th. Timothy Stone is sought by police as a person of interest. (report)
July 23: Christopher Perry, 33, was shot to death in a home on the 2300 block of 17th Street West in Powderly where drinking and drug use were going on. Earl Parnell was arrested and charged with murder. (report)
July 25: Tyron Allen was found shot to death, along with his girlfriend, inside a burning house on the 3200 block of Balsam Avenue Southwest in the Jones Valley neighborhood. No arrest. (report)
July 25: Tiara Myers was found shot to death in the same house.
July 25: Edward Lamar Davis, 26, was shot to death by his nephew during a domestic argument at a home on 10th Avenue near Frisco Street in Wylam. The shooter, Devonte Desmond Bembo, fled the scene, but was arrested the next day and charged with murder. (report)
July 30: Stephanie Nicole Loyde, 33, was found shot to death in the parking lot of the Sunrise Pointe Apartments off Oporto-Madrid Boulevard in Eastwood. A second victim was taken to UAB Hospital with life-threatening injuries. Quandarius Frazier was arrested in September and charged with murder and attempted murder. (report)
August 5: Ron'Narius "Duke" Austin, 2, was killed by gunfire while riding in a car with his parents and another man in the alley behind the 4200 block of 3rd Avenue South in South Avondale. Two adults were also injured in the rapid-fire assault, which came from another vehicle. Tyrone Smith, D'Marco Harris, Mykahl Harris and Joshua Carpenter were arrested and charged with capital murder. The charges against Carpenter were dismissed in November 2017. (report)
August 7: Gerald Duane Bailey, 23, was shot to death in a parking lot on the 600 block of 3rd Avenue West outside The Palace gentlemen's club. The shooting is believed to have stemmed from an argument that began inside the club when Bailey borrowed a cigarette lighter. No arrest. (report)
August 11: Myron Pratt, 47, was found shot to death at a house on the 1800 block of Bessemer Road in Central Park following an apparent argument. No arrest. (report)
August 16: DeJohn Lewis Williams, 20, was one of two men found shot to death at his home on the 2200 block of Northland Avenue Southwest in Powderly. No arrest. (report)
August 16: Dante Lanier Hall Jr, 21, was the second victim found in Williams' house.
August 24: James Jean Hendricks, 19, was found dead from gunshot wounds in a yard near a crashed pickup truck at the intersection of Imperial Drive and 17th Street Southwest in Mason City. No arrest. (report)
September 5: Howard Dewayne Bruce, 35, was ambushed and shot while driving his Chevrolet Z71 eastbound on Jefferson Avenue Southwest. He attempted to flee, but after he lost consciousness, his truck came to rest on Norfolk-Southern Railroad tracks near the intersection of Pearson Avenue Southwest and 15th Way Southwest in Oakwood Place, and was struck by a train. No arrest. (report)
September 6: Doris Gooden, 88, was found dead at her home on the 3200 block of Avenue D in Ensley. No arrest. (report)
September 6: Terius Marqueze Hilliard, 15, was shot to death in a drive-by assault while walking near the intersection of Ensley Avenue and 15th Street in Ensley. Jhontaye Cobb and Aubrey King were arrested and charged with capital murder, but the charges against them were dismissed in October. (report)
September 13: Demorris Sealy. 32. was found shot to death outside the Kingston Grocery at 892 44th Place North in Kingston. Rufus Brock was arrested a few days later and charged with murder. (report)
September 15: Rashaunda "Shun" Holyfield, 37, was stabbed to death during a confrontation at her home on the 7700 block of 3rd Avenue South. Danielle Devonna Sullens allegedly followed Holyfield to her house after an altercation involving Sullen's son. She was charged with murder. (report)
September 18: Jeremy Robinson, 26, was wounded in a shooting during an apparent robbery in a courtyard of Tom Brown Village on the 500 block of 41st Street North in North Avondale. He died later in hospital care. No arrest. (report)
September 23: Drevan LaQuez Jones, 22, was found with gunshot wounds in an SUV on the 3000 block of 44th Avenue North near the North Birmingham Homes in Fairmont. He died later at UAB Hospital. No arrest. (report)
September 25: Korderal Antoine Anderson, 29, died from gunshot wounds at UAB Medical West. The shooting took place outside a home on the 5900 block of Ellington Street in Roosevelt City. Michael Amerson was charged with murder. He turned himself in to police. (report)
September 26: Ta'Leah Nicole Alexander-Burke, 18 months, died at Children's Hospital from blunt force trauma suffered at her home on Tempest Drive in Powderly. Her death was ruled a homicide. Fredrich Earl Williams was arrested in October and charged with capital murder. (report)
October 4: The remains of Ieasha Shakinna Abrams, 34, were found in a wooded area near the HighPointe Apartments on Beacon Parkway East. Her death was ruled a homicide after an examination in December, but no arrest has been made. (report)
October 5: Jamil Demon Curry, 36, died from sepsis arising from a gunshot wound he suffered on August 28 at a home on the 1200 block of Gulfport Street in Wylam. Marcus Deontae Jones was arrested two weeks later and charged with murder. (report)
October 5: LaDarius Cooper, 29, was shot to death in his car on the 4900 block of Avenue R in Ensley. No arrest. (report)
October 15: Maurice Morris, 31, was wounded by gunshot during an altercation on the back patio at Club Onyx at 615 8th Avenue West near Legion Field in Graymont. He died shortly afterward at Princeton Baptist Medical Center. Taneria McGlown was arrested in November and charged with murder. Jimbroski Quantez Peterson was arrested in a few days later and also charged with murder. (report)
October 17: Antoine "Twin" Collier, 29, was shot to death outside Good Tyme Pizza on Graymont Avenue at Arkadelphia Road/Princeton Parkway in Graymont. No arrest. (report)
October 18: Tyroski Jerome "T. J." McCall, 35, was stabbed after a domestic argument with his daughter's ex-boyfriend at the Devonshire Apartments on the 2300 block of 7th Place Northwest and pronounced dead at St Vincent's East. Benjamin "Blake" Goble, a repeat domestic violence offender, was identified by the victim. He was arrested in Tarrant and charged with murder. Judge Bill Cole bound the charge over to a grand jury, which returned a felony murder indictment in January 2018. (report)
October 19: Steven Wayne Truex, 38, was shot by Birmingham Police officers responding to a domestic violence call on Dalton Drive in Roebuck. Truex was armed with a shotgun, and refused to comply with police commands. The Alabama Law Enforcement Agency is investigating the incident. (report)
October 27: Lakandria "Kandie" Rush, 33, was shot to death while sitting in an SUV on the 4800 block of Terrace S Ensley in Central Park. The man driving the GMC Yukon was wounded in the assault. The suspects fled the scene and have not been identified. (report)
October 28: DeAngelo Martezes Cain, 33, was shot to death, apparently during an argument over a woman, at the Sun Inn at 1573 Bessemer Road in Central Park. Anthony Lanard Carter was arrested at the scene and later charged with murder. He was indicted on a felony murder charge in January 2018. (report)
November 1: Grady Isam "Shady Grady" Jenkins, 51, a Birmingham Department of Public Works employee, was shot to death while mowing grass at 4114 8th Avenue Wylam, across the street from the Wylam K-8 School in Wylam. Jenkins, who has previously been charged with heroin distribution and attempted murder, was apparently targeted by the shooter. No arrest. (report)
November 1: Sylvester Poole, 54, was found dead from gunshot wounds in his pickup truck on the 1500 block of Avenue F. No arrest. (report)
November 1: Jeffery Tubbs, 41, was found dead at Avenue Z and 29th Street in Fairview. No arrest. (report)
November 3: Rodney Lee Williams, 35, was shot to death during an argument that broke out when he pulled a gun on an employee at the East Lake Superette at 421 Oporto Madrid Boulevard in North East Lake. Police believe that the shooting was justified as self-defense. (report)
November 4: Antron Grace, 41, was shot to death in the driveway of his home at 1409 90th Place North in Brownsville Heights. No arrest. (report)
November 6: Jeremy Stephen Omar Nicholas, 32, was shot to death on the 900 block of 23rd Street South in the Southtown Court housing project. No arrest. (report)
November 8: Miracle Sada McNeal, 15, was struck by one of a large number of bullets fired into a house at 330 12th Street Southwest in Arlington-West End. No arrest. (report)
November 13: Larry Sanders, 56, was found shot to death in his home on the 1300 block of 17th Street Southwest in the West End Manor neighborhood. A female person of interest is sought. Katawsha "Tasha" Lavonne Strong was arrested a week later and charged with murder. (report)
November 16: Jocklyn Manley, 51, was one of two people shot to death on the 200 block of 51st Street North in Woodlawn. No arrest. (report)
November 16: Pervis "PJ" Andre Polk, 17, was shot in the same incident and pronounced dead later at UAB Hospital.
November 19: Morry Green, 29, was shot to death at a home on the 1st block of 4th Avenue North in Smithfield while he was looking for his car. A person of interest was taken into custody at the scene. (report)
November 27: Rakeem Alexander, 22, was shot to death at his apartment on Clairmont Avenue at 30th Street South in Highland Park. No arrest. (report)
November 29: Michael Shane Stepp, 53, was found shot to death on the 2600 block of 7th Avenue South in Southside. A suspect was apprehended after attempting to elude police. He left the scene in a car, which was noticed by a patrol officer because he was driving without headlights. After a brief pursuit, the suspect crashed the car on the 3200 block of Highland Drive and fled on foot before he was captured. (report)
November 30: Dewayne Price, 22, was shot to death by his older brother during an argument which began in the apartment they shared with their mother on the 1200 block of 12th Street North]] in Fountain Heights. After shooting his brother, Jeremiah Price turned the gun on himself and committed suicide. (report)
December 3: Jahbrell Leon Sturgeon, 26, was shot to death in a gunfight on 29th Court North in the Collegeville Homes public housing community in Collegeville. No arrest. (report)
December 4: Marlon Hale, 45, was shot to death during a two-man assault at his house on the 2800 block of 32nd Place Southwest in Jones Valley. No arrest. (report)
December 10: Terrell Thomas Guy, 21, was shot to death during an argument over a gambling debt inside a unit at the HighPointe Apartments on the 1200 block of Beacon Parkway East. Joseph Curtis Moore and Steven Michael Crawford have been arrested and charged with capital murder. (report)
December 11: Elbert Lewis, 27, died at UAB Highlands from complications from injuries suffered during a November 29, 2016 shooting on the 6800 block of Kimberly Avenue in the Marks Village housing project in Gate City. (report)
December 20: Lynnwood J. Henry, 70, was shot to death while driving on Avenue W and crashed his car into a utility pole at 1st Street in Central Pratt. No arrest. (report)
December 23: Reynold "Ray Ray" Bonner III, 14, was shot to death at the KM Food Mart ("Lamb's") at 224 12th Street West in Rising-West Princeton. Investigators determined that he and a friend, Jordan Johnson, were attempting to rob another man, who shot Bonner in self defense. Johnson was arrested in January and charged with murder as an accomplice in a felony that resulted in a death. (report)
December 25: Tepe Edwards, 43, died at UAB Hospital from wounds suffered in a shooting two days prior at a home on the 1700 block of 32nd Place North in Norwood. The shooting appears to have been drug-related. Tommy Laneer Wood was arrested and charged with murder. (report)
December 26: Anthony Shuford, 53, was shot to death along with his wife at their home at 1609 30th Street in Ensley Highlands. No arrest. (report)
December 26: Stella Struitt, 54, was killed in the same incident.
December 28: Christopher Baird, 37, was shot to death by a Birmingham Police officer during a confrontation at the Days Inn Birmingham-Summit at 4627 U.S. Highway 280. The Alabama Law Enforcement Agency is investigating the incident. (report)